feat: Add client credentials guide for NGINXaaS Google (#2052)
nginx/documentation: content/nginxaas/google/quickstart/security-controls/client-credentials.md

---

> title: "Programmatic Authentication With Client Credentials"
> description: "Learn how to set up OAuth2 client credentials for programmatic access to the NGINXaaS API."
> weight: 100
> toc: true
> url: /nginxaas/google/quickstart/security-controls/client-credentials/
> f5-product: NGOOGL
> f5-content-type: how-to
> f5-keywords: "client credentials, OAuth2, programmatic authentication, API"
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
f5-keywords: "client credentials, OAuth2, programmatic authentication, API"
f5-summary: >
    Use this guide to create OAuth2 client credentials in the NGINXaaS for Google Cloud Console and exchange
    them for an access token that authenticates programmatic requests to the NGINXaaS API.
    Client credentials let machine users such as Terraform, CI/CD pipelines, and other automation tools
    authenticate without a human login.
    Credentials are scoped to a single organization and can only manage the Deployments, Configurations, and
    Certificates APIs.
f5-audience: operator
---
```

   - Client Name
   - Client ID
   - Token Endpoint
   - Date Created
   - Expires On

4. Check the expiration status indicator next to **Expires On**:
   - **Green dot**: Credential is active and valid
   - **Red dot**: Credential has expired

{{< call-out class="note" >}}
Client secrets are not displayed after creation. If you need to use credentials again, you must have saved the secret when you initially created the client.
{{< /call-out >}}

## Deleting client credentials

Follow these steps to delete a client credential:

1. Log in to [NGINXaaS Console](https://console.nginxaas.net/).
2. Select **Settings** > **Client Credentials** from the left navigation menu.
3. Locate the credential to delete in the table.
4. Select the three vertical dots icon (⋮) at the end of the row.
5. Select **Delete** from the menu.

After deletion:
- Existing access tokens continue to work until they expire (1 hour from issuance)

{{< call-out class="note" >}}
Expired credentials are not automatically removed. You must manually delete credentials that are past their expiration date.
{{< /call-out >}}

## Using client credentials for authentication

> ### Exchange credentials for an access token

Reviewer: after the level 2 heading I would like to see some short overview about what this section will achieve before jumping to the level 3 heading

```suggestion
## Using client credentials for authentication

Learn how to obtain and use access tokens from your client credentials to authenticate API requests.

### Exchange credentials for an access token
```

**Example using cURL**:

```bash
curl -X POST "https://<GEO>.api.nginxaas.net/api/v1/marketplace/auth/token" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "client_id": "<CLIENT_ID>",
    "client_secret": "<CLIENT_SECRET>",
    "grant_type": "client_credentials"
  }'
```

**Response**:

```json
{
  "access_token": "<ACCESS_TOKEN>",
  "token_type": "Bearer",
  "expires_in": 3600
}
```

### Use the access token

Include the access token in the Authorization header when making API requests.

**Example**:

```bash
curl -X GET "https://<GEO>.api.nginxaas.net/api/v1/deployments" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <ACCESS_TOKEN>"
```

### Access token validity

- **Duration**: Access tokens are valid for 1 hour from issuance
- **Reauthentication**: When a token expires, request a new one using the same client credentials, if the client credentials are still active
- **Scope**: Tokens are also scoped to the organization associated with the client credentials

## Security best practices

- **Store secrets securely**: Store client credentials in a secure place
- **Delete unused credentials**: Remove clients that are no longer needed

> - **Follow the recommended expiration**: Avoid using clients with a very long expiration, a good default to begin with is 6 months
> 
> ## Troubleshooting
> 
> ### Invalid or expired credentials

Reviewer: see my other comment

```suggestion
## Troubleshooting

Common issues when authenticating with client credentials and how to resolve them.

### Invalid or expired credentials
```

Follow these steps to view your client credentials:

1. Log in to [NGINXaaS Console](https://console.nginxaas.net/).
2. Select **Settings** > **Client Credentials** from the left navigation menu.
3. You can see all the available client credentials for your organization in the **Client Credentials** page. The table shows the following metadata for each credential:
   - Client Name
   - Client ID
   - Token Endpoint
   - Date Created
   - Expires On

4. Check the expiration status indicator next to **Expires On**:
   - **Green dot**: Credential is active and valid
   - **Red dot**: Credential has expired

{{< call-out class="note" >}}
Client secrets are not displayed after creation. If you need to use credentials again, you must have saved the secret when you initially created the client.
{{< /call-out >}}

## Deleting client credentials

Follow these steps to delete a client credential:

1. Log in to [NGINXaaS Console](https://console.nginxaas.net/).
2. Select **Settings** > **Client Credentials** from the left navigation menu.
3. Locate the credential to delete in the table.
4. Select the three vertical dots icon (⋮) at the end of the row.
5. Select **Delete** from the menu.

> After deletion:

Reviewer 2: There is not too much value in keeping these as these are obvious things?

I delete it so cool cannot use it anymore.

- The client can no longer request new access tokens using this credential
- Existing access tokens continue to work until they expire (1 hour from issuance)
- The client ID and secret become permanently invalid

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

> Expired credentials are not automatically removed. You must manually delete credentials that are past their expiration date.

Reviewer 2: this is a good call out 👍

> ---

Reviewer 2: can we please move this content to the overall NGINXaaS content now given this capability is widely applicable to NGINXaaS?

@JTorreG @mjang

Reviewer: there are pending conversations

title: "Programmatic authentication with client credentials"
description: "Learn how to set up OAuth2 client credentials for programmatic access to the NGINXaaS API."
weight: 100
toc: true
url: /nginxaas/google/quickstart/security-controls/client-credentials/
f5-product: NGOOGL
f5-content-type: how-to
f5-keywords: "client credentials, OAuth2, programmatic authentication, API"
f5-summary: >
    Use this guide to create OAuth2 client credentials in the NGINXaaS Console and exchange
    them for an access token that authenticates requests to the NGINXaaS API.

>     Client credentials enable access for automation toolchains such as CI/CD pipelines,

Reviewer 2: Can we please add a note here that access to these APIs is not officially supported. want to make sure we do not publicly declare support until we decide what we want here.

- [Certificates API]({{< ref "/nginxaas/google/deploy/ssl-tls-certificates/overview.md" >}})
- [Configs API]({{< ref "/nginxaas/google/deploy/nginx-configuration/overview.md" >}})
- [Deployments API]({{< ref "/nginxaas/google/deploy/create-deployment/deploy-console.md" >}})

### Client limits

Organizations are limited to a maximum of 10 client credentials. To request an increase to this limit, contact the (NGINX Support team)({{< ref "/nginxaas/support.md" >}}).

## Retrieve client information

Follow these steps to view information about your clients:

1. Log in to [NGINXaaS Console](https://console.nginxaas.net/).
1. Select **Settings** > **Client Credentials** from the left navigation menu.
1. You can see all the available client credentials for your organization in the **Client Credentials** page. The table shows the following metadata for each credential:
   - Client Name
   - Client ID
   - Token Endpoint
   - Date Created
   - Expires On

1. Check the expiration status indicator next to **Expires On**:
   - **Green dot**: Credential is active and valid
   - **Red dot**: Credential has expired

{{< call-out class="note" >}}

> Client secrets are not displayed after creation. If you need to use credentials again, you must have saved the secret when you initially created the client.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can only view the client secret once, when they're created. If you need to use credentials again, you must have saved the secret when you initially created the client.
```

{{< /call-out >}}

> ## Deleting client credentials

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Delete client credentials
```

Follow these steps to delete a client credential:

1. Log in to [NGINXaaS Console](https://console.nginxaas.net/).
1. Select **Settings** > **Client Credentials** from the left navigation menu.
1. Locate the credential to delete in the table.
1. Select the three vertical dots icon (⋮) at the end of the row.
1. Select **Delete** from the menu.

After deletion:

> - Existing access tokens continue to work until they expire (1 hour from issuance)

Reviewer 3: This is not clear. I'm guessing this works based on the rest of the doc

```suggestion
- Existing access tokens continue to work for 1 full hour after they're issued.
```

{{< call-out class="note" >}}
Expired credentials are not automatically removed. You must manually delete credentials that are past their expiration date.
{{< /call-out >}}

> ## Using client credentials for authentication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Use client credentials for authentication
```
